now let me sing to my well-beloved a
song of my beloved regarding his
vineyard my well-beloved has a vineyard
on a very fruitful Hill he dug it up and
cleared out its stones and planted it
with the choicest vine he built a tower
in its midst and also made a winepress
in it so he expected it to bring forth
good grapes but it brought forth wild
grapes and now o inhabitants of
Jerusalem and men of Judah judge please
between me and my vineyard what more
could have been done to my vineyard that
I have not done in it
why then when I expected it to bring
forth good grapes did it bring forth
wild grapes and now please let me tell
you what I will do to my vineyard I will
take away its hitch and it shall be
burnt and break down its wall and it
shall be trampled down I will lay it
waste it shall not be pruned or dug but
there shall come up briars and forms
I will also command the clouds that they
Ren no rain on it for the vineyard of
the Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel
and the men of Judah are his pleasant
plant he looked for justice but behold
oppression for righteousness but behold
a cry for help
woe to those who join house to house
they add field to field
till there is no place where they may
dwell alone in the midst of the land in
my hearing the Lord of hosts said truly
many houses shall be desolate great and
beautiful ones without inhabitant for 10
acres of vineyard shall yield one bath
and a homer of seed shall yield one eva
woe to those who rise early in the
morning that they may follow
intoxicating drink who continue until
night till wine inflame them the harp
and the strings the tambourine and flute
and wine are in their feasts but they do
not regard the work of the Lord nor
consider the operation of his hands
therefore my people have gone into
captivity because they have no knowledge
their honorable men are famished and
their multitude dried up with thirst
therefore shield has enlarged itself and
opened its mouth beyond measure their
glory and their multitude and their pomp
and he who is jubilant shall descend
into it people shall be brought down
each man shall be humbled and the eyes
of the lofty shall be humbled but the
Lord of Hosts shall be exalted in
judgment and God who is holy shall be
hallowed in righteousness then the lambs
shall feed in their pasture and in the
waste places of the fat ones strangers
shall eat woe to those who draw iniquity
with cords of vanity and sin as if with
a cart rope let's say let him make speed
and hasten his work that we may see it
and let the counsel of the Holy One of
Israel draw near and come that we may
know it woe to those who call evil good
and good evil who put darkness for light
and light for darkness who put bitter
for sweet and sweet for bitter woe to
those who are wise in their own eyes and
prudent in their own sight
woe to men mighty at drinking wine
woe to men valiant for mixing
intoxicating drink who justify the
wicked for a bribe and take away justice
from the righteous man therefore as the
fire devours the stubble and the flame
consumes the chaff so their root will be
as rottenness and their blossom will
ascend like dust because they have
rejected the law of the Lord of Hosts
and despised the word of the Holy One of
Israel therefore the anger of the Lord
is aroused against his people he has
stretched out his hand against them and
stricken them and the hills trembled
their carcasses were as refuse in the
midst of the streets for all this his
anger is not turned away but his hand is
stretched out still he will lift up a
banner to the nation's from afar and
will whistle to them from the end of the
earth surely they shall come with speed
swiftly no one will be weary or stumble
among them no one will slumber or sleep
nor will the belt on their loins be
loosed nor the strap of their sandals be
bro
whose arrows are sharp and all their
bows bent their horses hooves will seem
like flint and their wheels like a
whirlwind there roaring will be like a
lion
they will roar like young lions yes they
will roar and lay hold of the prey they
will carry it away safely and no one
will deliver in that day they will roar
against them like the roaring of the sea
and if one looks to the land behold
darkness and sorrow and the light is
darkened by the clouds